* If your SSH connection rejected by your DigitalOcean droplet simply restart your DigitalOcean droplet using turn on/off button in the droplet's dashboard.
* There is an anomaly. If I run the Python codes from absolute path the OpenCV face detection will not working. So, that I can only run the Python code if I `cd` into the Python code first. Let see these examples of codes in the terminal. The first codes are as follows.

```markdown
python -B /absolute/path/to/my/python/codes/my_open_cv_codes.py
```

* And second codes.

```markdown
cd /absolute/path/to/my/python/codes/
python -B my_open_cv_codes.py
```

* The differences is that the first codes has its face detection not working.
* While the second codes has everything works fine.
* What I suspect is that the path to the cascade is set relatively to the the terminal's active directory.
* Here is the code to my example cascade file for OpenCv face detection.

```markdown
CASC_PATH = "./cascade-face-front-default.xml"
```

* From the first code I execute that in my `home` directory. Hence, `"./cascade-face-front-default.xml"` will point to `"~/cascade-face-front-default.xml"` which is non - existent.
* The second code since I did `cd /absolute/path/to/my/python/codes/` the `"./cascade-face-front-default.xml"` will get into the correct file.
* Good thing to learn here are these.
    * The Python relative path is from the terminal current working directory and not relative from where the Python script is.
    * So it is better to just `cd` rather than using Python with absolute path like `python -B /absolute/path/to/my/python/codes/my_open_cv_codes.py`.