* Proposed timeline.
* Things need still to be done.
    * Testing.
    * Fixing paper that is nearly done.
* What are missing from the research paper?
    * Fixing chapter 5.
    * Chapter 6 is about user test.
    * Chapter 7 is about the summary about the overall research.
* The most time - taxing thing that still need to be done is to test.
* I proposed two kinds of user test.
    * The first test is about taking part in conversation when you are a newbie.
    * The second test would be about small interview about the project.
        * The Raspberry PI.
        * Web interface.
        * Server setup in Digital Ocean.
* The first part is to detect if someone get behind when conversation happened when it is not that person to begin with.
* What I proposed is per week extension upon request if possible. This is to ensure my progresses happened during that week.
* After each week, on Friday afternoon an email will be sent to both of my supervisors and you to be judge and valued further if incoming weeks are necessary.
* Plan.
    * Friday.
    * Monday.
    * Tuesday.
    * Wednesday.
    * Friday.
* Albeit there are some parts missing on the paper, me and both of my supervisors suggested for me to focus on thing that is completely missing, which is the user testing.
* Questions.
    * What I have now?
    * What are still need to be done?
    * Comments from supervisors.
    * Time approximation.
    * Suggested work flow.
* What do I have now?
    * Chapter 1 until Chapter 5.
    * Database server.
    * Raspberry PI setup.
    * Web application.
    * Web server.
* What are still need to be done?
    * Cases for Raspberry PI setup.
    * User test procedures.
    * User test.
        * Implementation based user test.
        * Interview based user test.
    * Fixing Chapter 5.
    * Making Chapter 6.
    * Making Chapter 7.
    * Appendixes.
    * Bibliographies.
    * Presentation.
* Comment from supervisor: Put focus on user testing since it is the only things missing, whereas the other can be just made independently.
* Time approximation: 2 weeks.
* I think I need to make 2 proposals. The first proposal is 1 week time period, while the second proposal is 2 week time period.
* List of packages manager used.
    * apt-get for Raspbian.
    * bower for client side web libraries.
    * npm for server side web libraries.
* pip3 for Python.* npm for server side web libraries.
    * pip3 for Python.