```markdown
`cascade_front_face_default.py` related to face detection, OpenCV.
`check_string.py`               related to cli, string.
`dict_manip.py`                 related to dictionary, general use.
`exception_warning.py`          related to class for all exception and warning, general.
`ipy.py`                        related to part of check string
`mod_thread.py`                 related to modified class for threading in Python
`timer_second_change.py`        related to I could have made this into X second timer, timer class.
```markdown

* What are things are there in my pysoc folder?
    * Folder about Command Line Interface.
    * Folder about collections of functions.
        * There is a Python file for checking string that could be replaced.
        * There is a Python file for value conversion and manipulation.
    * There is a folder about configuration and database.
    * There is a folder named "input" that is used to contain interface for input.
        * I will change this into a detection folder.
        * Or the same folder I use for the web client. The folder I use for my web application is named "detection".
* So the folder for my Python command line interface project are these.
    * `looseless_lib` for ipy library. Do not forget to re - clone back the project.
    * `detection` for all detection my Python client has.
    * `cli` for all codes related to command line interface.
    * `config_and_database` for all configurations and database codes.
        * I need to make a database_inserter class that complies the X second timer module.
* There are these parameters I would like to sort here.

```markdown
_name_thread
_array_thread
_config
_no_db
_db,
_c,
_abs_path_log
```

* These parameters are from `mod_thread` class. The classifications are as follows.
    * Database.
    * The information about the thread itself.
    * Configuration.
    * Log.
* In this, for this classification, the configuration need to come before database.
* Prototype.
    * Thread.
    * Configuration.
    * Database.
    * Log.
* Sample.
    * `self`.
    * `_array_thread`.
    * `_name_thread`.
    * `_config`.
    * `_c`.
    * `_db`.
    * `_no_db`.
* `_abs_path_log`.og`.