* Draft about project scope.
* I want to explain that the Sociometric Badge is a sub-set of lifelogging.
* Draft.
    * In my view, Sociometric Badge lives as a sub - set context of lifelogging.
    * Specifically, it is more into corporate and limited lifelogging than personal lifelogging.
    * This notion suggests that, every general lifelogging implementations can be used as an alternative to the Sociometric Badge.
    * But what are the catches? What makes general lifelogging appliances differ than Sociometric Badge?
    * General lifelogging devices usually employ video camera for capture photos or videos. However, for more specific use like Sociometric Badge, ....
    * General lifelogging devices usually employ a generic video camera, while more specific devices like Sociometric Badge usually use lower foot print sensor and use specific sensors for the needs.
    * General lifelogging device usually are hard on the software. There are an extensive tagging system and image processing.
    * Usually the limitation for more specific device like Sociometric Badge lies on the environment and as well as the user.
    * General lifelogging device can work independently, while Sociometric Badge can only be active in specific environment.
    * Additionally, there presents data comparisons. Sociometric Badge needs data from other Sociometric Badge to be compared with.
    * This then suggest Sociometric Badge as peer device.
    * lifelogging defined as the process of tracking personal data generated by our own behavioral activities.
    * However, to specific devices for measuring interactions their data needs to be compared.
* Draft.
    * In my point of view, Sociometric Badge lives as a sub - set of lifelogging.
    * Specifically, Sociometric Badge is a interactivity measuring device and it has more intention for corporate use.
    * This notion suggests that every general lifelogging implementations can be used as an alternative to the Sociometric Badge.
    * But what are the catches? What makes general lifelogging appliances differ than things similar to Sociometric Badge?
    * General lifelogging devices are meant for end - consumers. Hence, the resultant data need to be easily comprehended by human being regardless of the intelligence. Additionally, these kind of devices can be used wherever, whenever its users want to.
    * These reasons imply the use general capture module like audio recorder or video camera, as the outputs are rich in context and can be easily understandable.
    * Sociometric Badge deals with its users interaction. Thus, it cannot be use as a personal device.
    * Sociometric Badge will not work on itself as it needs to have others Sociometric Badges present for its data to be compared.
    * Additionally, unlike general lifelogging device, specific lifelogging devices can only be active in specific environment to limit the context.
* Draft for different paragraph.
    * In my point of view, Sociometric Badge lives in the sub-set of lifelogging. Specifically, Sociometric Badge is a interactivity measuring device with more intention for corporate uses. This notion suggests that every general lifelogging implementations can be used as an alternative to the Sociometric Badge.
    * But what are the catches? What makes general lifelogging appliances are different than things similar to Sociometric Badge? General lifelogging devices are meant for end - consumers. Hence, the resultant data need to be easily comprehended by human being regardless of the intelligence. Additionally, these kind of devices should be able to be used wherever, whenever its users want to. These reasons imply the use general capture module like audio recorder or video camera, as the outputs are rich in context and can be easily understandable. However, audio and video present large and unnecessary informations for specific device like Sociometric Badge. The use of more specific sensors can be seen in these specific devices and less in general lifelogging devices. Additionally, unlike general lifelogging device, Sociometric Badge can only be active in specific environment to limit its context. It will not work on itself as it needs to have others Sociometric Badges present for data to be compared.
    * Overall, the differences between general lifelogging and devices like Sociometric Badge lies on the limitation and data interface. lifelogging application need to be understood by many spectrum of people. On the other hand, devices similar to the Sociometric Badge limit themselves to a certain group of people. The data can be interfaced and shrunk down based on that specific group of people. Also, Sociometric Badge and its predecessors can only be used under specific conditions. For example, Sociometric Badge can only be used within an office building with other similar devices active. Although, general lifelogging device can be used for the same situation as well, the conveniences and practicalities to enforce those specific conditions are not there.
* The table below __*(please put reference to the State of the Art table)*__ presents both general and specific lifelogging implementations. The specific lifelogging implementations are ones those are related to human interaction. Aside from lifelogging appliances, due to lack of development between 2014 - 2016, there will be some DIY wearable devices as well. For this matter, I personally cherry picked ones those have features that could benefit Sociometric Badge.t could benefit Sociometric Badge.