* First paragraph draft for user groups.
    * There are two user groups or this project: social scientists and makers.
    * Social science defined as a study on how people behave. Social scientists usually work on formal activities to adjust and to predict what are the people reactions given a set of situations.
    * Maker defined as someone who make technology, representing do-it-yourself (DIY) sub-culture.
    * This project wants to deliver an alternative to Sociometric Badge.
    * The social scientist sit as the end - user of that deliverable.
    * The makers, on the other hand, act as mediators between the possible unknown realm of hardware/software development to the social scientists.
    * Since both groups can exists independently, a person could be determined as both social scientist and maker.
* Second paragraph.
    * The term of maker will never have clear qualifications.
    * In ideal case, maker needs to be able to derive a fitting technological solution given the design goals and limitations.
    * Since the design goals for this project will be related to social sciences, especially psychology, suitable maker for this project would be someone who has ever done works on interfacing social interaction into discrete world.
* Third paragraph.
    * To make an alternative to Sociometric Badge, both groups need to communicate on the requirements and the limitations. In this project, social scientists need to determine the project requirements. While, makers need to determine what are the current technical limitations as well as their own limitations.
* First paragraph for explaining social scientists.
    * This project deals with technology that could leverage the work of social scientists.
    * As social science lives in different spectrum from common technological background, experiment with the use of technologies seems not quite nourished compared to other studies like design or business. This results as spaces for more specific technologies to fit in.
* Second paragraph for social scientists.
    * In term of social data gathering, social scientists mainly use interview, observation, and questionnaire. For each of those, there are particular technologies that could be used to leverage the process. For example, Skype for interview and Survey Monkey for questionnaire. However, there are no tools that can be easily fit to leverage all together just yet.
* Third paragraph draft fr social scientists.
    * The concept of computer exists in anything (pervasive/ubiquitous computing) and Internet exists in everything (Internet of Thing) can be used to power up interview, observation, and questionnaire. There are good ingredients can be taken from those implementations listed in previous chapter __*(refer back to the previous chapter of State of the Art)*__. The obstacle will be to mix and match which components to use. Then, communicate the combinations to the makers.
* Maker!
    * As it is defined in The New York Times, maker is a technology based sub – culture based on DIY culture. The sense of do–it–yourself is for one to be able to make something without professional experience and professional tools. For this project, looking for specific people that exactly has the knowledge of embedded device and programming is not easy. However, there are a lot of hobbyists that could achieve to make the same thing for lower entry technical project.
* The maker tasked to define limitations, design the technical approach to solve the problem, and to document process for further iterations. Makers need to understand what is the commonly used tools. And then use this tool to develop the solution. Since this project has high regard on the flexibility of the resultant device, documentations are necessary in case minor modifications are required.modifications are required.