* Draft about tool of choice.
* Thoughts....
    * The controller is an electronics development kit used to develop deliverable for this project.
    * The ideal development board for this project will be a "liberal", programming language agnostic development kit.
    * The chosen board need to have a generous options for connectivity, decent amount of input and outputs pins, and will be better to have several supported programming language to be programmed with.
    * Requirements.
    * What are the requirements when choosing electronics development platform.
    * Not to be strict on these requirements, however it is good to have the electronics development kit those are these.
        * Open source.
        * Popular.
        * Common.
        * Easy to get.
        * A lot of wireless connectivity options.
        * A lot of plug-and-play plug-in.
* Draft on paragraph.
    * There are some requirements I put, those I used when choosing the correct electronics development platform. These requirements are flexible.
    * There are some guidelines I put when I needed to choose proper electronics development platform. These guidelines are flexible and not strictly to be followed.
    * In this case would be good to have an open source electronics development platform. What does open source means for electronics development platform? Open source refers to decentralized project management. The project is free to copy and free to modify for all. Usually it has specific people to manage the main project. This culture allows anyone to contribute to the project by forking/branching the project and then make their own changes, before finally push the changes back into the repository. Anyone could ask for "pulling" to other branch owner to merge their changes together. The whole operations results on faster development time and bug fixing, since adjustment can be done from anyone. Having open source hardware means that if adjustment happen, oneself or anyone who has the knowledge could do the modifications, without waiting the first party to do the action. The power of open source project itself lies on the community.
    * Having a popular electronics development platform would be a good choice. However, the term popularity, like which one is more popular from other, is subjectively given. Hence, the term of popularity here means on how accessible and responsive the community around chosen electronics development platform. Not all open source project are healthy. All of them usually start low profile and without expectation. A newly set open source project usually have its focus on development itself rather than adding features or bug fixing (yet, alone documentation). Hence, to chose solely because the electronics development board is open source not always the best solution. The first thing, I personally always check is where I would ask for questions. There are a lot of communication channels for developer. Ranging from the casual Reddit, Slack, the more formal StackOverflow, into the ancient IRC. Sometimes a channel is more active than another. Thus, the idea of searching for a popular electronics development platform is to determine how fast a question can be answered with little to no cost.
    * The ideal situation is that, one can get an electronics development platform as fast as possible from nearby local or online store. Although, commercial products could have the same qualities as well, this again suggest an advantage for an open source project. Overall, this quality will determined on the distribution of electronics development platform. Open source hardware that has its blueprints easily accessed can cloned. So, although the cloned hardware is not necessarily to be the exact same from the first party distributions, the ideal cloned hardware can still gives the same features with faster time to get into the developer.
    * Personally, to determine which electronics development platform to use, I will look on how many wireless communication can be easily interfaced. This implies on the hardware modularity as well as the necessary programming library of the chosen electronics development platform. As it was mentioned before, wearable devices most of the time need to either work independently or to have at least a method of wireless communication, since hardware-wise they are not powerful. Regardless, whether I chose to make an independent wearable device or dependent wearable device with wireless connectivities, it is better to have more options for wireless communication for development purpose.
* I am not keen on developing electronics from scratch. Hence, this comes as my personal limitation. The ideal solution is to get pre-made plug-in that can be just plugged-in and be programmed. In Arduino the term used is "shield", whereas Raspberry PI refers the same mechanics as "hat". Both shield and hat make use of the input and output pins to give functionalities for the development platform.the development platform.