* This time I would like to make draft for chapter 2.
* Chapter 2 will be about State Of The Art.
* State Of The Art will be about implementations.
* The thing is now there are so many implementations.
* I am not sure on where I should make the distinction.
* I need some categories, for sure, to group these implementations.
* So, let us brainstorm all the implementations.
    * Research implementations, from Meme Tag to the Rhythm Open Badge.
    * Commercial implementations, Active Badge, nTag, latest version of the Sociometric Badge.
    * Social sensor.
    * DIY.
* I think I should determine 4 quadrants diagram.
* What would the quadrants would be.
* Open Source commercial.
* So each implementations I need to determine whether it is commercial products or not.
* Open Source criteria will be depend on the documentations available.
* Features features will be depend on some criteria that I have not yet determine.
    * For example there are features that similar to the Sociometric Badge.
    * For example there are features that could help make the Sociometric Badge help.
* Brainstorming for features classifications.
    * Low powered controller.
    * Connectivity.
    * Storage.
        * Manual.
        * Automatic.
    * Sensor.
    * Context given agent.
    * Additional features.
* Precise 1 paragraph explanation.
* What are the most important features to have for this project.
    * Automatic data input.
    * Database.
    * Sensors.
    * Context given agent.
    * Storage.
    * Form.
    * Sensor.
* Anyway, I have made some drawings in my book. Just need to make the infographics from there.
* Now I need to determine what implementations will be in State Of The Art.
    * Active Badge.
    * DEFCON AND!XOR Unofficial Badge.
    * Meme/Thinking Tag.
    * Microsoft SenseCam.
    * nTag.
    * Queercon Badge.
    * Rhythm Open Badge.
    * Sociometer.
    * Sociometric Badge.
    * Spinner.
    * Uber Badge.
    * Vocera Communication Badge.
* Communication.
    * Bluetooth.
    * IR.
    * RF.
    * WiFi.
    * Other.
* Sensor.
    * Audio.
    * Distance.
    * Location.
    * Presence.
    * Proximity.
    * Video.
* Documentation.
    * Libraries list.
    * Parts list.
    * PCB file.
    * Research paper.
    * Schematics.
    * Source codes.
* Tutorial.ial.