* The focus of the testing is to answer related to the design goals.
* The design goals are not yet mentioned in the paper by the way.
* The design goals are something along these lines.
    * Making an alternative to Sociometric Badge that is easy to be made and modified.
    * Possible solution to Sociometric Badge.
* Implementation tests. Since Sociometric Badge has many different uses, from corporate to research, I want to implement an example case to see if solutions provided serve its purpose well as an alternative version to the Sociometric Badge.
* Interview test will be around asking on what do the user groups think about the device.
* There are two user groups mentioned for this project.
    * Makers.
    * Social scientists.
* So, the ideal case will be to have at least a person of each user groups to be interviewed.
* Brainstorming questions for interview test.
    * Do you prefer the web application or the Raspberry PI, the physical version?
    * Do you think people will have any benefit for owning social sensor like this personally?
    * Do you think you will use tool similar to this device for your future social experiment?
    * Do you use any technologies to leverage those social experiments?
    * How simple it is for you to install the device?
    * Imagine an ideal - dystopian world, as every tools you could imagine exists to help you to conduct social experiment exists. How can you define an ideal tool to help social data gathering?
    * There are a lot of examples of these kind of tools to be used in non - primary settings, like in hospital or military. Do you have any idea on other settings that could use of device like this?
    * What do you think about the badge?
    * What do you think could be better for the device?
    * What do you think could be implemented as a complementary features to the device?
    * What is the most complex DIY project you have ever done?
    * What is your name?
    * What kind of DIY project you ever done?
    * What kind of social experiments have you done before?
    * What kind of technologies you use to hep you conducting social experiment?
    * What makes the variable's values different between social experiment and non - social experiment?
    * When designing a wearable device like this, the perspective on form study comes from two side, from inside and from outside. Inside means that the device is very comfortable to wear hence hidden to the user. Whereas, outside means that device is not easily recognizable from anyone surrounding the user. Would like to have your user to be aware of them being recorded in case of device like Sociometric Badge (presents the case from Narrative Clip)?
* Brainstorming for implementation test.
* Pending....mentation test.
    * Pending....