* Active Badge.
    * The Active is a smart office badge for location tagging from 1992.
    * Although the research project for this badge started on 1989, the device itself started to appeared around 1992.
    * The University of Twente Computer Science department is listed as one of the recipient for the first batch of the Active Badge.
    * Aside from Active Badges those appeared in research institution, this badge was used and originally purposed for office environment.
    * It has simple infrared location tagging for its wearer to access rooms within the office building.
    * Active Badge declined in use when mobile phone and world wide web became more accessible to people.
    * Active Badge is a smart office badge for location tagging appeared in 1992. The research for this badge started on 1989. The University of Twente Computer Science department is listed as one of the recipient for the first batch of the Active Badge. Aside from Active Badges those appeared in research institution, this badge was used and originally purposed for office environment. It has simple infrared location tagging for its wearer to access rooms within the office building. Active Badge declined in use when mobile phone and world wide web became more accessible to people.
* Meme/Thinking Tag.
    * The project was first started as Meme Tag and then named into Thinking Tag. Back then, the idea of "meme" still came from the original Richard Dawkin's meme __*(reference to Richard Dawkins book about meme)*__ which is an idea, behavior, or style that spreads from person to person within a culture. And Meme Tag stands still on that definition. At its first usage, user needs to go to a computer booth to set their personal message (hence, meme). When there are other Meme Tag wearers, users can both point the infrared transceiver to each others for exchanging memes. It was used at event where there are a lot of people (usually conference). In the recent days, I see that Twitter took this same principle and add "Internet" into it.
* Microsoft SenseCam/Vicon Revue.
    * Microsoft SenseCam was a project at Microsoft Research but then carried out by a promising imaging company named Vicon. It changed name from Microsoft SenseCam into Vicon Revue and it became commercial product with price tag around 800 USD. There were ten years from Microsoft to Vicon. During those ten years a lot of researches happened ranging from health care (aiding people with Alzheimer) into Microsoft SenseCam as personal use. The initial use was actually to present Microsoft SenseCam as a wearable "human blackbox" as it records any possible interactions from its wearer point of view. Although it has no wireless communication, as the price and intention suggest, Microsoft SenseCam/Vicon Revue is packed with a lot of sensors and can be operated independently.
    * Initiated in 2001, Microsoft SenseCam has its first prototype done with PIC micro controller. In my opinion, PIC was equivalent to what Arduino serves nowadays, an easy to interface development kit for electronics development. This suggest that device as extensive and as features packed like Microsoft SenseCam could be started with a humble electronics development kit.
* Sociometer.
    * From the name and features, I suggest that Sociometric Badge was a follow up project from Sociometer. Sociometric Badge has everything more than what Sociometer has. However, the intention is different as Sociometer is meant to be used for longer period of time. This makes significant decision on the form. Sociometric Badge is an entirety of normal office badge packed with sensory features. Sociometer, in the other hand, is designed to be as ergonomics as possible with its shoulder pad look. The decision was __*(insert reference to Sociometer main paper here)*__ because of the needs to be worn all - day the device need to be as comfortable as possible. The cue is that the wearers will not feel like they are wearing Sociometer. As previously mentioned on how device with intention like Sociometer needs to be ambient, Sociometer's shoulder pad design suggest a new perspective on pervasive computing. As the computer unit is not hidden to the surrounding but is hidden for the main user.
* UbER Badge.
    * UbER Badge came from the same person who then decide to make Spinner __*(insert reference to Spinner main research paper here)*__ as, perhaps, a follow up project to UbER Badge. The idea of UbER Badge roots in DIY principles as there are a lot of documentations available for commonalities to make UbER Badge for themselves. UbER Badge aims to aid researcher on studying human interaction. UbER Badge itself is very flexible to develop. There are many ways to adjust UbER Badge based on needs. Wholly, the later Rhythm Open Badge also seems very similar to UbEr Badge.
* nTag.
    * nTag is perhaps the commercial solution that is similar to Meme/Thinking Tag. The main feature is to share messages and preferences to other wearers, thus makes networking and starting conversation in conference easier. Additionally, there are a lot of features for the event organizer, for example to manage logistic and on - badge questionnaire.
* Vocera Communication Badge.
    * Vocera Communication Badge is a commercially available wearable communication device for critical environment. Its demands, most of the time, come from hospitals for their need of communication devices for emergency situation. Vocera itself offers rugged Android phone with the same intention as an alternative to the badge. The use of RF and WiFi as its wireless communications suggest that those are reliable wireless communications as communication needs to be always available. Vocera Communication Badge costs around 20.000 USD for 75 users, with inclusive supporting system. Thus, this is not a personally owned device.
* Sociometric Badge.
    * Sociometric Badge initially appeared in 2008 as a research project. It promised as a set of wearable sensor to enhance people interactivity.
    * Sociometric Badge went commercial.
    * Sociometric Badge is under a company named Humanyze.
    * I think, Sociometric Badge is not part of the deal itself. But when you bought Sociometric Badge, you purchase for the whole environment.
    * There is a web client for administration panel. These administration panel is meant for both the wearer and the super user that can manage and set for the whole environment of Sociometric Badge.
    * Sociometric Badge is a closed environment. You cannot use Sociometric Badge on its own.
    * Sociometric Badge is intended to be used in corporate office environment.
    * I refer this as a lifelogging solution for corporate and business. However, do not put pressure on lifelogging since that will be mentioned later.
    * It uses infrared to detect face to face conversation detection.
    * The latest research project that experiment to make a wearable set of social sensors.
    * The research of Sociometric Badge was published on 2008 __*(put reference from the Sociometric Badge main research paper here)*__. It is still the latest research project that has intention to make a wearable set of social sensors. After the aforementioned research, around 2011, there are little to no publication on what was the development status of Sociometric Badge. Until finally, it reappeared back commercially under company named Humanyze.
    * I infer Sociometric Badge as a corporate lifelogging implementation or as a FitBit for personal development __*(put referene to an article that says that Sociometric Badge is like FitBit but for personal development)*__. Sociometric Badge promises to enhance people collaboration especially in corporate setup. It works in pre-determined environment along with other Sociometric Badges. It able to detect if there are abnormalities during conversation/interaction. Additionally, Sociometric Badge comes with a client interface for its wearer to see every data have ever recorded from the Sociometric Badge. From there the users could infer by themselves at which part of interaction they are lacking or if they overdo it. Fortunately the process does not happen automatically, users need to submit and move the data from their Sociometric Badge to main computer to see what Sociometric Badge records.
* Put below paragraph in a section about sensors.
    * I suggest that there are two layers of results come from Sociometric Badge. The first layer is the raw sensor data from Sociometric Badge. However, just sole numbers are not enough for human comprehension, context needs to be given. This present the second layer of the results. The users can either input results from the first layer result into Sociometric Badge content management system or give the context by themselves manually. After both layers identified, conclusion can be pulled.
* Spinner.
    * Spinner came from the same creator that made UbER Badge.
    * The main intention of Spinner is for entertainment.
    * Specifically an automated entertainment.
    * Specifically an automated video log.
    * The sensor located statically in place.
    * Hence, Spinner only works in a pre - determined space.
    * Contrary to Microsoft SenseCam/Vicon Revue and Memoto/Narrative Clip, spinner takes 3rd person video for its users, since the video sensor is placed statically, instead of being worn.
    * Spinner is formed as wrist watch and those statically placed sensor.
    * The Wristwatch is a set of sensors and wireless communication protocol by itself.
    * The wristwatch contains RF to communicate (it acts as presence detection as well) to the sensor nodes and accelerometer for motion detection.
    * Basically a lifelogging implementation from 3rd person point of view.
    * Spinner is a lifelogging implementation with third person point of view. It is intended to help people to make an automated video log with little to no manual editing. The result of Spinner is a video that display the life of the wearer from third person perspective, adjusted as such it is similar to a pre - determined pattern. The pattern can be chosen from pre - made patterns, made from scratch, or combination of both. Most of available pre - made patterns are based on popular movies like Star Wars. The resultant video expected to have the same flow with the provided pattern. I think the pattern is a set of predetermined sensory values that, if the condition meet, makes the statically placed camera node to start recording videos. After some times, it starts to compose videos for specific user based on user's available video clips and the provided pattern.
    * It has two things: the wearable sensors device with wristwatch like form and statically placed sensors node. The wearable sensors node uses RF to communicate to the static node to inform if it needs to capture data from the users. At bare minimum there are a sensor attached into the wristwatch and a video camera in the static node. In this case, it has motion detection to reference back with the previously provided pattern.
    * Spinner ecosystem is a good example of social data gathering from third person point of view. This suggest less technical requirements on the moving, wearable sensory unit and more requirements into the statically placed sensory nodes. As previously mentioned, social data gathering needs __*(refer to the paper from Carthal Gurrin)*__ to be ambient and form is matter, there might be technical requirements for putting larger or more sensors that make the wearable device become more intrusive and obvious to see. The solution is to leverage the environment itself as a host for sensors.
* Memoto/Narrative Clip.
    * This started as a KickStarter campaign with a product named Memoto.
    * However, the first commercial iteration came out as Narrative Clip.
    * As I want to love this device, it is just a glorified camera with attached accelerometer to register tapping as a way to physically interface with the device.
    * It has no button.
    * It automatically turned on if there is power and the camera is not covered up.
    * To turn off just put this in your pocket where it receives no light.
    * The advantage of using Narrative Clip is that the photo/video is taken automatically.
    * At default you could tap twice on the device to capture 10 seconds video (Narrative Clip 2 only).
    * Memoto/Narrative Clip is the closest dedicated lifelogging implementation to consumer. It priced around 299 USD for the latest version and 150 for the first version. The price is three times cheaper than other consumer lifelogging device (Vicon Revue and OMG Autographer). It appeared in a featured KickStarter campaign for a product named Memoto in 2012, before it changed name into Narrative Clip. Narrative Clip is a dedicated lifelogging device. It has a camera, accelerometer, and a precisely small form. It has no buttons and interactions happen from gesture input received by the accelerometer. The whole system (device with its supporting software) provides easy tagging system to manage photos and videos from the device itself.
    * Narrative Clip suggest the use of camera as a multi - modal sensor for self - social data gathering. The presents of camera means that there is no need to have another sensor since everything can be inferred from photos or videos. The lack of qualitative sensor values, however, suggests that the usage of Narrative Clip for real life social data gathering requires context given manually by human.
* OMG Autographer.
    * OMG Autographer appeared nearly in the same time with Memoto/Narrative Clip.
    * OMG Autographer is a consumer level dedicated lifelogging application that share a lot similarities with then discontinued Vicon Revue.
    * I see OMG Autographer as smarter version of Memoto/Narrative Clip.
    * It has more sensors and hence more features.
    * It priced around 800 USD of which makes this device less accessible especially as a device for very specific need.
    * OMG Autographer captures photo or video automatically based on its sensor data. To some sense this is similar to what Spinner achieved, but it has no limitation on where the user location.
    * There is a problem with Narrative Clip that OMG Autographer solved. Due to its small form factor of Narrative Clip, people surrounding its user usually complain if they know they are being monitored. There is no such problem as OMG Autographer has an obvious camera form.
    * OMG Autographer is another consumer level lifelogging implementation derived from the discontinued Vicon Revue. It appeared in the same year with Memoto's KickStarter campaign, although sadly both the company and the product itself are discontinued. What set OMG Autographer from Memoto/Narrative Clip are price and features. OMG Autographer priced around 800 USD, and with very specific purpose it serves makes this device to be less accessible for general consumers. However, it has more features packed than Memoto/Narrative Clip. It has a built - in GPS and magneto meter to detect the orientation and where the camera is facing. OMG Autographer will manually take pictures based on input from sensors. To some sense this is what Spinner achieved without Spinner's limitation on pre - defined environment. For these qualities, I define OMG Autographer as a smarter version of Narrative Clip.
    * There is problem with Narrative Clip that OMG Autographer solved. Based on reviews from many consumer tech website, many Narrative Clip users comment on complains they received from people around them. The complain started when these surrounding people become aware of them being monitored by Narrative Clip. However, there is no such remarks on OMG Autographer. The hint could be on the obviousness of the camera. In Narrative Clip the camera design is very low profile and barely noticeable. On the the hand, OMG Autographer uses more obvious looking camera. From this notion I suggest people would not mind to be recorded if they are aware in the first place.
* New Relic Future Stack Badge.
    * New Relic is a company specialized in data analysis.
    * The Future Stack Badge is their DIY proof of concept solution that was used in their first - ever conference.
    * What is interesting from the New Relic Future Stack badge is its less electronics development.
    * It was made with help of Electric Imp.
    * Electric Imp is a small formed development kit to help all hardware to be connected into the Internet.
    * Electric Imp can be easily interfaced with high level programming language like Ruby.
    * Based from an article __*(insert article about the development of New Relic Future Stack Badge)*__ the main developer has a good reason on why they were developing New Relic Future Stack Badge instead of using the widely available processing power from smart phone.
    * The key point here is because homogeneity.
    * Smart phones have varied features, for example Apple refused to have NFC until iPhone 6. At that point other flagship Android smart phones have already shipped with NFC. Hence, making a sensor application in a heterogeneous platforms become harder. In this case, their solution was to develop a homogeneous hardware with easy to interface development kit to serve very specific need for their first ever New Relic conference. Additionally, socially speaking most people would rather not to install an application for only specific amount of time.
    * New Relic is a company specialized in data analysis. The Future Stack Badge is their DIY proof of concept solution that was used in their first - ever conference. It formed as a normal conference badge with additional feature to exchange contact with tapping it into another Future Stack Badge. It was made with help of Electric Imp. Electric Imp is a small formed development kit to help hardware to be connected to the Internet.
    * Based from an article __*(put reference to the New Relic article that says something on why the development was started as a dedicated device instead of using smart phone)*__ the main developer has a good reason on why they were developing New Relic Future Stack Badge instead of using the widely available processing power from smart phone. The main reason is because homogeneity. Smart phones have varied features, for example Apple refused to have NFC until iPhone 6. Whereas at that point other flagship Android smart phones had already shipped with NFC. Hence, making a sensory kind of application for smart phone become harder. Their answer was to develop a homogeneous hardware with easy to interface development kit to serve very specific need for their first - ever New Relic conference. Additionally, socially speaking most people would rather not to install an application for only specific amount of time.
* DEFCON Unofficial AND!XOR Badge.
    * DEFCON Unofficial AND!XOR Badge was a DIY badge made for 2016's DEFCON. DEFCON itself is a conference for people with interest in cyber security. Its general intention is just for fun, it has built - in puzzle to solve as well as chat application. However, there are features that would be good to be implemented in Sociometric Badge: the possibility of serial communication let this badge to be easily set with a common terminal application via USB and having LCD interface and buttons let its users to easily adjust settings without accessing computer. The former would make batch set up to be easier, whereas the later will be good to have in more research environment in case little adjustments are necessary.
    * It uses NRF development kit, that features low powered Bluetooth communication. Perhaps, DEFCON Unofficial AND!XOR Badge made with the same NRF development kit variant used to develop Rhyhtm Open Badge.
* Hackaday Belgrade/Supercon Badge.
    * Hackaday Belgrade/Supercon Badge came with more and less features than DEFCON Unofficial AND!XOR Badge. It is the featured badge for Hackaday conference. Although there is no tutorial to built one, there is a software development kit framework and guide to let its users develop application for this Hackaday Belgrade/Supercon Badge. Most of the time, applications on embedded wearable device are dead fixed unless there are hardware modifications or new codes upload to the micro controller. From implementations discussed in this chapter, only Hackaday Belgrade/Supercon Badge offers a way to develop applications for itself without hardware modifications and new codes upload.
* Queercon Badge.
    * Queercon Badge is the main conference badge for 2016 Queercon. It is visually attractive and socially aware. Queercon Badge as RGB LEDs that react based on the color set from nearby badge. So the color on the LED will depend on the color of surrounding badge. This happened with help of hopping RF communication through all possible Queercon Badge in range. If Hackaday Belgrade/Supercon Badge offers a way to develop an application, there are some in and out pins to let users to extend this badge with, perhaps, additional LEDs or sensors.
* Rhythm Open Badge.
* Rhythm Open Badge is an open source implementation since Sociometric Badge went commercial. The project started in 21st January 2016 and still going. It is intended to help people to study human interaction. Although, open source and has its own GitHub hosted repository, due to still in development it lacks a lot information. There are three iterations done. The first one was done with Arduino compatible development kit, while the third one was done with NRF51 - DK BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) based micro controller from Nordic Semiconductor. There is no information on what is the intermediate iteration. Rhythm Open Badge can be powered with a coin battery. This project and DEFCON Unofficial AND!XOR Badge give the importance of having low powered wireless communication like BLE for wearable Internet of Things project.e of having low powered wireless communication like BLE for wearable Internet of Things project.