* Tutorial about setting up LIRC in Raspberry PI, [http://alexba.in/blog/2013/01/06/setting-up-lirc-on-the-raspberrypi/](http://alexba.in/blog/2013/01/06/setting-up-lirc-on-the-raspberrypi/).
* Run this command to install LIRC in Raspberry PI, `sudo apt-get install lirc`.
* After this I need to modify 2 configuration files.
    * The 1st is to edit `/etc/modules`.
    * The 2nd file I need to edit is `/etc/lirc/hardware.conf`.
* Edit those files with the configurations from this website, [http://alexba.in/blog/2013/01/06/setting-up-lirc-on-the-raspberrypi/](http://alexba.in/blog/2013/01/06/setting-up-lirc-on-the-raspberrypi/).
* Reset LIRC background service with this codes.

```markdown
sudo /etc/init.d/lirc stop
sudo /etc/init.d/lirc start
```

* In latest Raspberry PI firmware (firmware version 3.18.x per 25th January 2015), there is an additional file that need to be edited, which is `/boot/config.txt`.
* You need to add this line into `/boot/config.txt`.

```markdown
dtoverlay=lirc-rpi.gpio_in_pin=23.gpio_out_pin=22
```

* After changing `/boot/config.txt` restart the Raspberry PI.
* To send and receive signal with Raspberry PI, I need to specify which pin is used for the IR transmitter (IR LED) and which one is used as IR receiver.
* The components used are roughly as follow.
    * IR LED.
    * IR receiver (please note the frequency).
    * PN2222 transistor.
    * 10 Kilo Ohm resistor to be put between Raspberry PI GPIO pin and the PN2222 transistor.
* For this tutorial.
    * Pin 22 is for IR receiver.
    * Pin 23 is for IR LED.
* There are 4 diagrams to connect/wire everything up.
* There is "view the updated one here" schematics listed in the website. I think I would just stuck on that one.
* Testing IR receiver by running this commands.

```markdown
sudo /etc/init.d/lirc stop
mode2 -d /dev/lirc0
```

* After this try to press some button in IR based remote to test.
* For testing IR LED I need a configuration file.
* This is like a dictionary that stores pattern for Raspberry PI.
* There is this method called, `irrecord` within LIRC library.
* Use `irrecord --list-namespace` to see valid names.
* The configuration file is stored in `/etc/lirc/lircd.conf`