* Now I am working to make everything to be make sense.
* As make sense as possible.
* And additionally to make everything connected with a good flow.
* Now start with introduction for this research paper.
* In the introduction there would be these.
    * The general structure of this research paper.
    * The main problem for this project.
    * What is the project about.
    * Who are the user groups.
    * Perhaps, also the main inspiration for this project.
* So, now let us start with the most basic thing.
* I am making the paragraph about what is this project is about.
* This project is about making an alternative version to the Sociometric Badge.
    * What is the Sociometric Badge?
    * What was the situation out there when there was no Sociometric Badge?
    * Who makes Sociometric Badge?
    * Why do people need Sociometric Badge?
    * Why do we need to make an alternative to the Sociometric Badge?
* What is Sociometric Badge?
    * Sociometric Badge cannot work alone.
    * Sociometric Badge is a set of social sensor developed by a Boston based company named Humanyze.
    * Sociometric Badge is a wearable technology with a promise to optimize how people works in office environment.
    * Sociometric Badge will try to construct a social network from interactions from people in a pre - determined environment.
    * The deal usually comes with a set of Sociometric Badges and its additional environment (an application to extract data and web client).
* Need to make a thesis sentence of any combination of sentences above.
    * The topic is Sociometric Badge.
    * The controlling idea is a 5W + 1H question that is related to the topic.
* Let say I choose this sentence as the topic sentence.
    * Sociometric Badge is a set of wearable sensor developed by Boston based company named Humanyze.
* The topic is Sociometric Badge.
* The controlling idea is social sensor.
* Although, I think the controlling ideas is still too big.
* So, in this paragraph we will talk about Sociometric Badge as a social sensor.
* Draft paragraph.
    * Sociometric Badge is a set of wearable social sensor developed by a Boston based company named Humanyze.
    * Sociometric Badge promises to optimize how people works in office environment.
    * And to achieve such goal, it works by constructing physical, real - life social networks based from social interactions of its wearers.
    * As the name suggests, social activity cannot happen with only one subject inside the environment.
    * Thus, Sociometric Badge cannot and should not work alone.
    * The deal usually comes with a set of Sociometric Badges and its additional environment (an application to extract data, web client, ...).
* Sociometric Badge is a set of wearable social sensors developed by Boston based company named Humanyze. It promises to optimize how people works in office environment. To achieve such goal, it works by constructing physical, real - life, social networks based from social interaction of its wearers. As the name and its goal suggest, social activity defined with multiple correspondents interchange informations both subtle and explicitly. Thus, Sociometric Badge cannot work on its own. The deal usually comes with a set of Sociometric Badges and its supporting environment (an application to extract data, as well as web client).
* The first paragraph is now clear and I like it a lot.
* Now, I need to make the second paragraph.
* I think the suitable guiding question would be, "what is the problem with Sociometric Badge?".
* What is the problem with Sociometric Badge.
    * Closed source.
    * Commercial.
    * Hard to communicate with.
    * Hard to get.
    * No obvious way on how to get it.
    * Primarily not intended to be used by researchers/social scientists but commercial office.
* Draft sentences for the second paragraph.
    * Although Sociometric Badge primarily intended to be used in office environment, there are requests come from social scientists as well. Traditionally, social scientists use interview, observation, and survey to get social data. In the recent day, there are technologies to leverage interview and survey. For example, with Skype people can conduct interview over the Internet and there are web based applications like Google Form or Survey Monkey to help people to make online survey. However, there are no latent technologies that can be used to help social observation just yet. Sociometric Badge can be the answer for such problem, as it can help social scientists to do social observation and give additional parameters to interview and survey.
* Draft for third paragraph.
    * Sociometric Badge starts as a sequence of researches of similar products.
    * The original inspiration was a commercial electronics badge for office building named Active Badge.
    * Active Badge was a product from Olivetti Research.
    * Active Badge is primarily used as a local positioning system for its wearer.
    * The highlight of this project is about misfit principles between social scientists and the Sociometric Badge itself.
    * The Active Badge became the reason on why there were future studies.
    * Between Active Badge and the Sociometric Badge, there are many other similar projects.
    * These projects lead into the development of the first version of Sociometric Badge appeared on 2008.
    * After 2010 there are little to informations on the Sociometric Badge.
    * It appeared back as a commercial product.
    * As the nature of commercial product, Sociometric Badge comes as a close - ended product.
    * There are neither hardware or software development kit.
    * This is a bummer for a social scientists as if modifications are necessary.
    * Additionally, as the time this paper is written, the only way to buy the Sociometric Badge is with an email form in the bottom of the company's website (https://www.humanyze.com/contact.html). There is no obvious "Buy Now" button as it is usually in e - commerce based website. I tried to contact them to ask for informations regarding the Sociometric Badge, however there are no reply.
    * These problems are what make the Sociometric Badge is not accessible to use for research purposes.
* Third paragraph.
    * The highlight of this project is about misfit principles between social scientists and the Sociometric Badge itself. The Sociometric Badge started from a sequence of similar researches and products. The original inspiration was from Active Badge. Between Active Badge to the Sociometric Badge, there are others similar projects. These project led into the development of the Sociometric Badge in 2008. However, after 2008, there are little to no information of the Sociometric Badge. Until, it then re - appeared as a commercial product. As the nature of common commercial products, the Sociometric Badge became a close - ended product. There are neither hardware and software development kit for the newest version of the Sociometric Badge. This is a bummer for the social scientists if modifications are necessary. Additionally, as the time this paper is written, the only way to buy the Sociometric Badge is with an email form in the bottom of the company's website (https://www.humanyze.com/contact.html). There is no obvious "Buy Now" button as it is usually in e - commerce based website. I tried to contact them to ask for informations regarding the Sociometric Badge, however there are no reply. These problems are what make the Sociometric Badge is not accessible to use for research purposes.
* The next paragraph will be about the main inspiration for this project.
    * The obvious main inspiration for this project will be the Sociometric Badge itself.
    * There are 2 kinds of Sociometric Badge.
        * The first iteration of the Sociometric Badge that was done in 2008.
        * The latest iteration of the Sociometric Badge that went commercial under Humanyze.
    * The other inspiration will be Rhythm Open Badge a new project initiated with the help of the same professor that makes the Sociometric Badge.
    * The Rhythm Open Badge is an open source project.
    * The Rhythm Open Badge has its own GitHub repository.
    * Although, Rhythm Open Badge is open the tools and the methods used are uncommon.
    * I suggest that looking for a person that could develop one will be hard.
    * I suggest that the common ways to make something at this point will be using Raspberry PI and Arduino.
    * The Rhythm Open Badge uses NRF51 - DK.
    * NRF51 - DK is a low powered micro - controller.
    * NRF51 - DK can be just powered with a coin battery.
    * NRF51 - DK have a BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) for wireless communication.
    * Beside the Sociometric Badge itself, the main inspiration for this project is Rhythm Open Badge.
    * Rhythm Open Badge comes in 21st January of 2016 as an open solution that is similar to the Sociometric Badge.
    * Rhythm Open Badge is still in development.
    * Within Rhythm Open Badge project itself, there is an Android application to show - off some functionalities of the real Rhythm Open Badge.
    * The real Rhythm Open Badge currently has two versions, the first version and the third version.
    * I am not sure where the second version is, but there are only the first and the third those are listed within the Wiki section of Rhythm Open Badge GitHub repository.
    * There is no apparent problem per see, except these.
        * They use NRF51 - DK as the development kit.
        * No body uses NRF51 - DK.
        * The price is also more expensive than Raspberry PI or self - made Arduino.
    * So, this project wants to initiated an alternative to the Sociometric Badge.
    * But, there is Rhythm Open Badge already.
    * The thing is although Rhythm Open Badge is open source, the development is not easily modified.
    * The "easy to modified" refers on how easy it is to modify both codes and the electronics schematics from the documentation provided.
    * From this point, Rhythm Open Badge developed in a manner that contributor would just need to download the Eagle Schematics and then try to fabricate that schematics.
    * This result on ....
    * I think I need to determined my self here as a person who understand programming but not so much in electronics production.
    * And programming is easier to learn than electronics due to portability and the risk of failure (money, time to spent to order the modules, as well as concern for tools depreciation).
    * Electronics component is depreciate quickly over the recent years.
    * Electronics component needs to be handled carefully.
    * Hence this project is set to be create another Sociometric Badge that is in higher level from the Rhythm Open Badge.
    * This project also wants to set a low risk - easy to setup example on how to develop an alternative to the Sociometric Badge.
* Draft paragraph.
    * Aside from the Sociometric Badge itself, the inspiration for this project is the Rhythm Open Badge. Rhythm Open Badge is an open source project under MIT License and has its repository hosted within GitHub (https://github.com/HumanDynamics/openbadge/). From its homepage (http://www.rhythm.mit.edu/open-badge/), this project offers solution to cheap and open alternative to help people with interaction studies. At some sense, most of it, Rhythm Open Badge is similar to the Sociometric Badge. Rhythm Open Badge project started on 21st January 2016. At the time this paper is written it is still under development. Hence, the documentation is not yet complete. From this point, one could make Rhythm Open Badge with downloading schematics, fabricate the board, and then attaching the electronic components.
* Draft paragraph.
    * I identify myself as someone who do programming more than making electronics. My personal view is that doing and learning programming is more "portable" than learning and making electronics. Additionally, programming has little to no risk compared with making electronics. With recent days electronics devices get depreciated quickly, with new and better modules come every months, I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge and with low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches.
* The "higher level" refers to easier to interface for both maker and user.
* Final chapter 1.

Sociometric Badge is a set of wearable social sensors developed by Boston based company named Humanyze. It promises to optimize how people works in office environment. To achieve such goal, it works by constructing physical, real - life, social networks based from social interaction of its wearers. As the name and its goal suggest, social activity defined with multiple correspondents interchange informations both subtle and explicitly. Thus, Sociometric Badge cannot work on its own. The deal usually comes with a set of Sociometric Badges and its supporting environment (an application to extract data, as well as web client).
Although, Sociometric Badge primarily intended to be used in office environment, there are requests come from social scientists as well. Traditionally, social scientists use interview, observation, and survey to get social data. In the recent day, there are technologies to leverage interview and survey. For example, with Skype people can conduct interview over the Internet and there are web based applications like Google Form or Survey Monkey to help people to make online survey. However, there are no latent technologies that can be used to help social observation just yet. Sociometric Badge can be the answer for such problem, as it can help social scientists to do social observation and give additional parameters to interview and survey.
The highlight of this project is about a misfit principle between social scientists and the Sociometric Badge itself. The Sociometric Badge started from a sequence of similar researches and products. The original inspiration was from 1992's Active Badge by Olivetti Research. Between Active Badge to the Sociometric Badge, there are others similar projects. These projects led into the development of the Sociometric Badge in 2008. However, after 2008, there are little to no information of the Sociometric Badge. Until, it then re - appeared as a commercial product. As the nature of common commercial products, the Sociometric Badge became a close - ended product. There are neither hardware and software development kit for the newest version of the Sociometric Badge. This is a bummer for the social scientists if modifications are necessary. Additionally, as the time this paper is written, the only way to buy the Sociometric Badge is with an email form in the bottom of the company's website (https://www.humanyze.com/contact.html). There is no obvious "Buy Now" button as it is usually in e - commerce based website. I tried to contact them to ask for informations regarding the Sociometric Badge, however there are no reply. These problems are what make the Sociometric Badge is not accessible to use for research purposes.
Aside from the Sociometric Badge itself, recently, there is Rhythm Open Badge. Rhythm Open Badge is an open source project with MIT License and has its repository hosted within GitHub (https://github.com/HumanDynamics/openbadge/). From its homepage (http://www.rhythm.mit.edu/open-badge/), this project offers cheap solution to help people with interaction studies. At some senses, most of it, Rhythm Open Badge is similar to the Sociometric Badge. Rhythm Open Badge project started on 21st January 2016. At the time this paper is written it is still under development. Hence, the documentation is not yet complete. From this point, one could make Rhythm Open Badge with downloading schematics, fabricating the board, attaching the electronic components, then uploading the codes.
I identify myself as someone who do programming more than making electronics. My personal view is that doing and learning programming is more "portable" than learning and making electronics. Additionally, programming has little to no risk compared with making electronics. With recent days electronics devices get depreciated quickly, with new and better modules come every months, I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge with low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches.

* I want to edit the 5th paragraph.

I identify myself as someone who do programming more than making electronics. My personal view is that doing and learning programming is more "portable" than learning and making electronics. Additionally, programming has little to no risk compared with making electronics. With recent days electronics devices get depreciated quickly, with new and better modules come every months, I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge with low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches.

* Especially this sentence.

With recent days electronics devices get depreciated quickly, with new and better modules come every months, I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge with low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches.

* The first clause is not match with the second clause.
* Draft.
    * With recent days electronics devices get depreciated quickly, with new and better modules come every month, it is getting harder to choose which one is the most suitable development platform.
* I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge with low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches and with a mainstream hardware development kit.
* Part the above sentence into 2 sentences.

I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge. The result should be a device that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge with low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches and made with a mainstream hardware development kit.

* It still it and miss.
    * It is getting harder to choose electronics development platform.
    * The goal of this project is to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level of interface than Rhythm Open Badge.
    * The approaches should be low - risk, easy to make and modify, and utilizing mainstream hardware development kit.
* The final sentences would be like these.
    * With recent days electronics devices get depreciated quickly, with new and better modules come every month, it is getting harder to choose which one is the most suitable development platform.
    * The goal of this project is to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level of interface than Rhythm Open Badge.
    * The approaches should be low - risk, easy to make and modify, and utilizing mainstream hardware development kit.

With recent days electronics devices get depreciated quickly, with new and better modules come every month, it is getting harder to choose which one is the most suitable development platform. The goal of this project is to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level of interface than Rhythm Open Badge. The approaches should be low - risk, easy to make and modify, and utilizing mainstream hardware development kit.

* Final chapter 1.

Sociometric Badge is a set of wearable social sensors developed by Boston based company named Humanyze. It promises to optimize how people works in office environment. To achieve such goal, it works by constructing physical, real - life, social networks based from social interaction of its wearers. As the name and its goal suggest, social activity defined with multiple correspondents interchange informations both subtle and explicitly. Thus, Sociometric Badge cannot work on its own. The deal usually comes with a set of Sociometric Badges and its supporting environment (an application to extract data, as well as web client).
Although, Sociometric Badge primarily intended to be used in office environment, there are requests come from social scientists as well. Traditionally, social scientists use interview, observation, and survey to get social data. In the recent day, there are technologies to leverage interview and survey. For example, with Skype people can conduct interview over the Internet and there are web based applications like Google Form or Survey Monkey to help people to make online survey. However, there are no latent technologies that can be used to help social observation just yet. Sociometric Badge can be the answer for such problem, as it can help social scientists to do social observation and give additional parameters to interview and survey.
The highlight of this project is about a misfit principle between social scientists and the Sociometric Badge itself. The Sociometric Badge started from a sequence of similar researches and products. The original inspiration was from 1992's Active Badge by Olivetti Research. Between Active Badge to the Sociometric Badge, there are others similar projects. These projects led into the development of the Sociometric Badge in 2008. However, after 2008, there are little to no information of the Sociometric Badge. Until, it then re - appeared as a commercial product. As the nature of common commercial products, the Sociometric Badge became a close - ended product. There are neither hardware and software development kit for the newest version of the Sociometric Badge. This is a bummer for the social scientists if modifications are necessary. Additionally, as the time this paper is written, the only way to buy the Sociometric Badge is with an email form in the bottom of the company's website (https://www.humanyze.com/contact.html). There is no obvious "Buy Now" button as it is usually in e - commerce based website. I tried to contact them to ask for informations regarding the Sociometric Badge, however there are no reply. These problems are what make the Sociometric Badge is not accessible to use for research purposes.
Aside from the Sociometric Badge itself, recently, there is Rhythm Open Badge. Rhythm Open Badge is an open source project with MIT License and has its repository hosted within GitHub (https://github.com/HumanDynamics/openbadge/). From its homepage (http://www.rhythm.mit.edu/open-badge/), this project offers cheap solution to help people with interaction studies. At some senses, most of it, Rhythm Open Badge is similar to the Sociometric Badge. Rhythm Open Badge project started on 21st January 2016. At the time this paper is written it is still under development. Hence, the documentation is not yet complete. From this point, one could make Rhythm Open Badge with downloading schematics, fabricating the board, attaching the electronic components, then uploading the codes.
I identify myself as someone who do programming more than making electronics. My personal view is that doing and learning programming is more "portable" than learning and making electronics. With recent days electronics devices get depreciated quickly, with new and better modules come every month, it is getting harder to choose which one is the most suitable development platform. The goal of this project is to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level of interface than Rhythm Open Badge. The approaches should be low - risk, easy to make and modify, and utilizing mainstream hardware development kit.

* The last paragraph is still hit and miss.
* The last paragraph is supposed to be the conclusion introduction conclusion of this paper.
* The last paragraph needs to show the main goal of this project.
* The last paragraph will be the last paragraph before the paper structures (lol).
* Potential additional paragraph about my own introduction draft.
    * I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge with low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches.
    * I identify myself as someone who do programming more than making electronics.
    * My personal view is that doing and learning programming is more "portable" than learning and making electronics.
    * Programming also involves less risk compared to making electronics.
    * Additionally, electronics development kit depreciate faster, as there are better solutions come every month.
    * The "low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches" suggests for this project to come up with an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that can be established with more codes and less about electronics.
* Draft.
    * Overall, this project is set to create an alternative solution to the Sociometric Badge and Rhythm Open Badge.
* Brainstorming the one from last paragraph for my introduction chapter.
    * It is better to state the main point in the first sentence of the paragraph.
    * Perhaps, I could improvise by putting the last sentence as the conclusion for the paragraph.
* So, the first sentence should be the main point of the paragraph. What is my main point?
    * The main point is to set what this project is trying to make.
    * The previous paragraph is about Rhythm Open Badge in general.
    * Rhythm Open Badge has its own problems and they are mentioned on the last paragraph.
    * However, those problems are not mentioned explicitly.
* There another problem as well. Which is the choice of technologies used to make the Rhythm Open Badge.
* I think the last paragraph should be my own limitation as well as the main goal of this project.
* Draft.
    * With this project I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge.
    * The difference is that the device should be in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge.
    * ....
* Draft.
    * I identify myself as someone who do programming more than making electronics.
    * From my point of view, doing and learning programming is more "portable" than learning and making electronics.
    * Additionally, compared to developing an electronics device, programming involves little to no risk.
        * I am a bit off for this sentence.
    * Learning programming is more "portable" than learning electronics.
    * Programming also involves fewer risk than making electronics.
* What paragraph that I want to make.
    * The limitations of this project.
    * The requirements of this project.
    * And then another paragraph about the overall goal for this project.
* The limitations are these.
    * I do programming more than making electronics.
    * Programming is more "portable" than making electronics.
    * Programming has less risk than developing electronics device.
* I think the programming here should be more into developing software than programming.
* Because I can also programming but for electronics.
* App or software, which one to use?
* So the sentence should be, "I define myself as someone who is developing application more than developing electronics.".
* The term of developing is too tongue twisting.
* Actually the previous sentence is okay because I still do programming regardless if it is an application or programming for electronics.
* Draft again.
    * I define myself as someone who do programming more than making electronics.
    * In my personal view doing and learning programming is more "portable" and has little to no risk compared to learning and making electronics.
    * It is hard to choice which electronics platform to develop to, when the differences are just pins layout and the programming.
    * Additionally, in these recent days, electronics platforms depreciate faster than before.
    * Hence, I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge, with low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches and with more codes and less about electronics.
* The paragraph.
    * I define myself as someone who do programming more than making electronics. In my personal view doing and learning programming is more "portable" and has little to no risk compared to learning and making electronics. It is hard to make a choice on which electronics platform to develop with, when there are many to choose, yet the differences are just pin layout and the programming. Additionally, in these recent days, electronics platforms depreciate faster than ever due to new solutions come every months. Hence, I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge, whit low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches and with more codes and less about electronics.
* Here is the whole chapter 1 without the structures.

Sociometric Badge is a set of wearable social sensors developed by Boston based company named Humanyze. It promises to optimize how people works in office environment. To achieve such goal, it works by constructing physical, real - life, social networks based from social interaction of its wearers. As the name and its goal suggest, social activity defined with multiple correspondents interchange informations both subtle and explicitly. Thus, Sociometric Badge cannot work on its own. The deal usually comes with a set of Sociometric Badges and its supporting environment (an application to extract data, as well as web client).
Although, Sociometric Badge primarily intended to be used in office environment, there are requests come from social scientists as well. Traditionally, social scientists use interview, observation, and survey to get social data. In the recent day, there are technologies to leverage interview and survey. For example, with Skype people can conduct interview over the Internet and there are web based applications like Google Form or Survey Monkey to help people to make online survey. However, there are no latent technologies that can be used to help social observation just yet. Sociometric Badge can be the answer for such problem, as it can help social scientists to do social observation and give additional parameters to interview and survey.
The highlight of this project is about a misfit principle between social scientists and the Sociometric Badge itself. The Sociometric Badge started from a sequence of similar researches and products. The original inspiration was from 1992's Active Badge by Olivetti Research. Between Active Badge to the Sociometric Badge, there are others similar projects. These projects led into the development of the Sociometric Badge in 2008. However, after 2008, there are little to no information of the Sociometric Badge. Until, it then re - appeared as a commercial product. As the nature of common commercial products, the Sociometric Badge became a close - ended product. There are neither hardware and software development kit for the newest version of the Sociometric Badge. This is a bummer for the social scientists if modifications are necessary. Additionally, as the time this paper is written, the only way to buy the Sociometric Badge is with an email form in the bottom of the company's website (https://www.humanyze.com/contact.html). There is no obvious "Buy Now" button as it is usually in e - commerce based website. I tried to contact them to ask for informations regarding the Sociometric Badge, however there are no reply. These problems are what make the Sociometric Badge is not accessible to use for research purposes.
Aside from the Sociometric Badge itself, recently, there is Rhythm Open Badge. Rhythm Open Badge is an open source project with MIT License and has its repository hosted within GitHub (https://github.com/HumanDynamics/openbadge/). Known from its homepage (http://www.rhythm.mit.edu/open-badge/), this project offers cheap solution to help people with interaction studies. At some senses, most of it, Rhythm Open Badge is similar to the Sociometric Badge. Rhythm Open Badge project started on 21st January 2016. At the time this paper is written it is still under development. Hence, the documentation is not yet complete. From this point, one could make Rhythm Open Badge with downloading schematics, fabricating the board, attaching the electronic components, then uploading the codes.
I define myself as someone who do programming more than making electronics. In my personal view doing and learning programming is more "portable" and has little to no risk compared to learning and making electronics. It is hard to make a choice on which electronics development kit to develop with, when there are many to choose, yet the differences are just pin layout and the programming. Additionally, in these recent days, electronics development kits depreciate faster than before due to new solutions come every months. Hence, I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge, with low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches and with more codes and less about electronics.

* I need to make the last paragraph.
* Since the last paragraph is detailed informations on how the paper structured, perhaps I need to make the last paragraph to be just a dud.
* And then replace this paragraph later when everything is near complete. And there will be no further change on the table of contents.
* Draft paragraph.
    * Overall, this paper is about detailed progress on my attempt to create aforementioned device which is the alternative to the Sociometric Badge.
    * This paper starts with detailing previous similar implementations and similar products.
    * The next chapter will be titled State of the Art.
    * The purpose of State of the Art would be to look on similar implementations in the past.
    * From those implementations pattern will be determined.
    * This pattern will be used to look what is the possibility for the current iteration of Sociometric Badge - like device, which will be the result of this project.
    * Also, looking at these implementations to look what could be good to be implemented in later version.
    * By looking at these implementations future iterations' features could be determined.
    * The main purpose of State of the Art is too look back as well as to look at the future.
    * In the next chapter, this paper will go through previous to recent implementations.
    * The aim is to understand that could be the features for current iteration (this project's result) and features in future iterations.
    * After knowing the what is the possibilities, user groups will be determined.
    * From this chapter, it is known that the primary target would be social scientists.
    * However, there will be discussed whom else would use information from this project.
    * Next, is about Project Limitations and Project Requirements.
    * The purpose of knowing the technical limitations is to determine the design principles.
    * From devised principles, then the project requirements for this project then can be decided.
    * In the next chapter the design goals will be discussed.
    * The main difference between Project Requirements and Design Goals is that Project Requirements are points that I need to do as the only doer of this project.
    * Whereas Design Goals are the objectives that the deliverables from this project need to achieve.
    * Then, tests will be conducted.
    * For this project, the tests would be usability test as well as test on possible implementations.
    * This paper then closed with Conclusion.
    * In Conclusion, there would be the Advices, Possible Future Implementation and Project.
* Draft paragraph.
    * Overall, this paper is about detailed progress on my attempt to create aforementioned device which is the alternative to the Sociometric Badge. This paper starts a chapter about previous projects and products as implementations. The idea of this chapter is to define what are the features for current iteration (the result from this project) and the features for future iterations. After knowing what could be the possibilities, user groups will be determined. From this chapter, it is known that the primary user group will be the social scientists. However, there will be discussions on whom else could benefit from any informations come from this project. Next is about Limitations and Requirements. Limitations are defined as project and technical limitations. The purpose of Limitations and Requirements is to define Design Principles and Design Goals. Principle in general is used as a track, so the project will not go outside its context. The difference between Project Requirements and Design Goals is that Requirements are points that I need to do as the only doer of this project. Whereas Design Goals are objective that the deliverables from this project need to achieve. After all of these, there will be tests. The tests will be usability testing and implementation test. This paper then ended with Conclusion. In Conclusion, there will be Advices for future similar projects and Possible Implementations.
* This is the whole chapter 1.

Sociometric Badge is a set of wearable social sensors developed by Boston based company named Humanyze. It promises to optimize how people works in office environment. To achieve such goal, it works by constructing physical, real - life, social networks based from social interaction of its wearers. As the name and its goal suggest, social activity defined with multiple correspondents interchange informations both subtle and explicitly. Thus, Sociometric Badge cannot work on its own. The deal usually comes with a set of Sociometric Badges and its supporting environment (an application to extract data, as well as web client).
Although, Sociometric Badge primarily intended to be used in office environment, there are requests come from social scientists as well. Traditionally, social scientists use interview, observation, and survey to get social data. In the recent day, there are technologies to leverage interview and survey. For example, with Skype people can conduct interview over the Internet and there are web based applications like Google Form or Survey Monkey to help people to make online survey. However, there are no latent technologies that can be used to help social observation just yet. Sociometric Badge can be the answer for such problem, as it can help social scientists to do social observation and give additional parameters to interview and survey.
The highlight of this project is about a misfit principle between social scientists and the Sociometric Badge itself. The Sociometric Badge started from a sequence of similar researches and products. The original inspiration was from 1992's Active Badge by Olivetti Research. Between Active Badge to the Sociometric Badge, there are others similar projects. These projects led into the development of the Sociometric Badge in 2008. However, after 2008, there are little to no information of the Sociometric Badge. Until, it then re - appeared as a commercial product. As the nature of common commercial products, the Sociometric Badge became a close - ended product. There are neither hardware and software development kit for the newest version of the Sociometric Badge. This is a bummer for the social scientists if modifications are necessary. Additionally, as the time this paper is written, the only way to buy the Sociometric Badge is with an email form in the bottom of the company's website (https://www.humanyze.com/contact.html). There is no obvious "Buy Now" button as it is usually in e - commerce based website. I tried to contact them to ask for informations regarding the Sociometric Badge, however there are no reply. These problems are what make the Sociometric Badge is not accessible to use for research purposes.
Aside from the Sociometric Badge itself, recently, there is Rhythm Open Badge. Rhythm Open Badge is an open source project with MIT License and has its repository hosted within GitHub (https://github.com/HumanDynamics/openbadge/). Known from its homepage (http://www.rhythm.mit.edu/open-badge/), this project offers cheap solution to help people with interaction studies. At some senses, most of it, Rhythm Open Badge is similar to the Sociometric Badge. Rhythm Open Badge project started on 21st January 2016. At the time this paper is written it is still under development. Hence, the documentation is not yet complete. From this point, one could make Rhythm Open Badge with downloading schematics, fabricating the board, attaching the electronic components, then uploading the codes.
I define myself as someone who do programming more than making electronics. In my personal view doing and learning programming is more "portable" and has little to no risk compared to learning and making electronics. It is hard to make a choice on which electronics development kit to develop with, when there are many to choose, yet the differences are just pin layout and the programming. Additionally, in these recent days, electronics development kits depreciate faster than before due to new solutions come every months. Hence, I want to set this project to make an alternative device to the Sociometric Badge that is in higher level than the Rhythm Open Badge, with low - risk, easy to make and modify approaches and with more codes and less about electronics.
Overall, this paper is about detailed progress on my attempt to create aforementioned device which is the alternative to the Sociometric Badge. This paper starts a chapter about previous projects and products as implementations. The idea of this chapter is to define what are the features for current iteration (the result from this project) and the features for future iterations. After knowing what could be the possibilities, user groups will be determined. From this chapter, it is known that the primary user group will be the social scientists. However, there will be discussions on whom else could benefit from any informations come from this project. Next is about Limitations and Requirements. Limitations are defined as project and technical limitations. The purpose of Limitations and Requirements is to define Design Principles and Design Goals. Principle in general is used as a track, so the project will not go outside its context. The difference between Project Requirements and Design Goals is that Requirements are points that I need to do as the only doer of this project. Whereas Design Goals are objective that the deliverables from this project need to achieve. After all of these, there will be tests. The tests will be usability testing and implementation test. This paper then ended with Conclusion. In Conclusion, there will be Advices for future similar projects and Possible Implementations.