* Writing the first sentence of introduction section in scientific paper.
* This is the first paragraph.
    * Advanced ceramic materials such as zirconia have great potential as substitutes for traditional materials in many engineering applications; however, problems such as difficulties in producing products of reliable and consistent quality and high manufacturing costs have thus far restricted their use by engineers.
* In the first sentence it tells what is the potential and what is the current solution.
* In the second clauses in the first sentence, it tells what is wrong with the solution in the first clause.
* Later in the sentence, it tells what problem it currently have in details.
* The sentence also tells what is the difficulty with the current solution.
* And then finally, this sentence introduce the reader to who is the subject of this scientific paper.
* In this case who is affected by the problem from the current solution.
* So from the first paragraph it is known that the research is mainly about fixing the current solution.
* To sum up, the first paragraph is consist of simple state of the art, the difficulties and the problems those are comes from the current solution, and to whom these difficulties and problems affects.
* TLDR.
    * The current or the main state of the art solution.
    * The difficulties raised from the mentioned solution.
    * The problem raised from the mentioned solution.
    * The main victim from the difficulties and problems.
* Now we move to the second paragraph of the introduction.
* Here is an example of the second paragraph of introduction.
    * Difficulties in achieving reliable and consistent quality stem largely from the formation of thermal gradients that often occurs during conventional sintering processes. Slow, controlled heating and cooling rates have been used to solve this problem. While this solution facilitates the manufacture of high quality components, it does so at the expense of production rate, and deterioration of the mechanical properties of the ceramic because of an increase in grain size. This solution, therefore, achieves quality at the expense of an economical production rate.
* The second paragraph is mainly about explaining what is the difficulties as well as the problem.
* The half - later part of second paragraph, it explains on how the problems affect the current solution.
* Let's check data on how to buy sociometric badge.
* So I have sent an email to the company that made sociometric badge, Humanyze.
* In that email I asked whether or not there is a hardware or software development kit.
* I think this is the main problem of sociometric badge is that there is no development platform, hence there is no way for it to be fitted to what people needs.
* And there is also no obvious way on how to order one.
* I have seen a lot of people are asking on how to get sociometric badge.
* So the demands are there but there is no clear way on how to access it yet.
* To sum up the second paragraph is to determine and to explain the problem.
* Now move into the third paragraph.
    * Recently, interest has been growing in alternative sintering techniques that could overcome the problem of thermal gradients more economically. One of the most promising is the use of microwaves to sinter ceramic compacts. Microwave sintering has many attractive features, including rapid volumetric heating and low cost. It may have other advantages as well, as there is some evidence that the mechanical properties of microwave-sintered ceramics are superior to those of conventionally-sintered eramics. This superiority has been largely attributed to the smaller grain sizes resulting from the short, rapid sintering cycle.
* The third paragraph is more into the "research gap".
* But since there is little to no research done within 2009 to now, it is hard to see what is the gap.
* So in this section I would prefer to make some statements about what have been done so far as brief as possible.
* Those "what have been done" would be ....
* Actually I will just go and talk about the current trends and what can those trends affect and solve problem this paper trying to solve.
* To sum up, the third paragraph would be how recent trends could affect this project.
* The last sentence of the introduction paragraph is this.
    * Until now, there has been no report of any systematic study of the microstructures produced by microwave sintering, or their relationship to the properties of the sintered product. The aims of this project were to compare the resultant properties and microstructure with material sintered by conventional constant heating rate rocesses. The relationships between density and grain size were studied. It was predicted that microwave sintering would alter the densification/grain growth relationship. The effects of heating rate and yttria content were also investigated. It was predicted that yttria content of ceramics sintered onventionally or by microwave would not differ.
* The first sentence is indication on what is missing in the first place.
* The second sentence is to explain the goal of this project.
* The last sentence is the prediction before the project began.
* The main hypothesis of this project.
* So to sum up the main idea of the last paragraph is to explain what is this paper/project is about.
    * The gap. The thing that is supposed to exists but it is not.
    * The current trends and how can those affect this project.
    * The goal of this project.
    * The hypothesis.
* The last paragraph should be the structure of this paper.
* Sample for introduction chapter.
    * Draft.
        * Nowadays, social data gathering usually meant as a gathering social media data from available platform like YouTube or Facebook.
        * The classic methods on taking data for social experiment are usually involving direct interview, observation, questionnaire, or survey.
        * However, these methods are not scalable in case additional informations are required. For instance if there are additional variables those need to be observed are missing, the experimenter needs to re - do the observation from the beginning.
        * Doing social observation should be elevated because everything can be connected to Internet nowadays.
        * Although every of those methods can be elevated by technology nowadays, the meant of social data gathering nowadays is stagnant in gathering data from social media.
        * The classic methods on taking data for social experiment are usually involving direct interview, observation, questionnaire, or survey. However, these methods are not scalable in case additional informations are required. For instance if there are additional variables those need to be observed are missing, the experimenter needs to re - do the observation from the beginning. Although, nowadays every of those methods can be elevated by technology, the meant of social data gathering is still stagnant in gathering data from well established social media like Facebook, Google Form, or YouTube.
        * There is still a gap to fill for a tool that help social data gathering in non - Internet, non - social media environment. There was Sociometric Badge with its paper dated on 2008 titled XXXXX meant to enhance organizational workflow in small group. Eight years later, in 2017, the Sociometric Badge molded within a company named Humanyze. By the time this paper is written, there is no obvious way on how to get their Sociometric Badge aside from an email form in the bottom of Humanyze's website.
        * With little to no information available on Sociometric Badge, there is no way for commoners to hack the badge to suits their needs aside from asking the company directly. Furthermore, there are no development kit publicly available for both hardware and software. This opens up this paper an opportunity for creating an open alternative to Sociometric Badge.
        * This paper focuses on processes to create an alternative to Sociometric Badge. This paper starts by looking at previous to recent wearable electronics devices that supports social data gathering. Then moves into defining what is the ideal Sociometric Badge from the specifications listed in State of the Art. This ideal specifications will then dumbed down to meet the budget and time requirements into more realistic specifications.
    * Final version that is not a draft (lol).
        * The classic methods on taking data for social experiment are usually involving direct interview, observation, questionnaire, or survey. However, these methods are not scalable in case additional informations are required. For instance if there are additional variables those need to be observed are missing, the experimenter needs to re - do the observation from the beginning. Although, nowadays every of those methods can be elevated by technology, the meant of social data gathering is still stagnant in gathering data from well established social media like Facebook, Google Form, or YouTube.
        * There is still a gap to fill for a tool that help social data gathering in non - Internet, non - social media environment. There was Sociometric Badge with its paper dated on 2008 titled XXXXX meant to enhance organizational workflow in small group. Eight years later, in 2017, the Sociometric Badge molded within a company named Humanyze. By the time this paper is written, there is no obvious way on how to get their Sociometric Badge aside from an email form in the bottom of Humanyze's website.
        * With little to no information available on Sociometric Badge, there is no way for commoners to hack the badge to suit their needs aside from asking the company directly. Furthermore, there are no development kit publicly available for both hardware and software. This opens up for this paper to aim for creating an open alternative to Sociometric Badge.
        * This paper focuses on project to create an alternative to Sociometric Badge. This paper starts by looking at previous to recent wearable electronics devices that supports social data gathering. Then moves into defining what is the ideal Sociometric Badge from the specifications listed in State of the Art. This ideal specifications will then dumbed down to meet the budget and time requirements into more realistic specifications.
        * Furthermore, user groups will be determined after the realistic specifications is known. These user groups, each, define user requirements. The requirements that lies in the intersections will be the main concern for this project. Each of the requirements determine a failable test to see what things should be fixed in the next iterations.
        * The remainder of this paper will go through the development process itself. From the selection of hardware, software, and which database to use. As well as good practices to use to develop good platform for social data gathering.
        * This paper concludes with advices on which development platform test and what area are still left to discover and to be developed in future related works.
* Another sample for introduction paper.
    * This paper is about a project on making an open alternative to Sociometric Badge. Sociometric Badge was first introduced in 2008, mentioned in a paper titled XXXXX. It was built to enhance group collaboration via sociometric analysis. The idea itself root from previous similar projects that meant to make real - life social networking easier by mixing people who has same interests. At the essence, Sociometric Badge is a tracking tools for people that is working in a group.
    * The main idea of this paper is how to use popular technology to leverage social data gathering. Traditionally social data gathering is carried out using interview, observation, questionnaire, and survey. However, these methods are not scalable. For instance, if there are variables those are missing, the experimenter should re - do the method again from the beginning. And while there are lot of technologies that should solve this problem, the notion of social data gathering is already shifted as it is gathering data via social network platform like Facebook or YouTube. There is little to no mention of social data gathering as it is in real - life case anymore.
    * Sociometric Badge is a good fit to the main idea because it allows social data to be gathered ubiquitously. At basic Sociometric Badge is able to capture voice features of its wearer as well as face to face detection with infrared transceiver. With tool like this there is no need to re - do a social observation because the variable is always monitored by inputs from Sociometric Badge. 
    * After eight year since its initial release Sociometric Badge is now molded in a company named Humanyze. Since 2011 there are little to no paper with regard to Sociometric Badge anymore. The information seems to be close tight as to prepare the company. Up until this point there are no documentation nor hardware/software development kit. This means that in case someone decided to pull cash to buy set of Sociometric Badges from Humanyze, there is no way to set the badges to suits their need unless the company steps in. 
    * For commoners the main problem then is how to get their hand into Sociometric Badge in case he/she needs it. At the time this paper is written, there is no obvious way on how to buy Sociometric Badge aside from an email form at the bottom of Humanyze's website. The other solution would be on how to make an alternative to the Sociometric Badge using technologies those are widely available. However, there is little to no documentation available on what is the specifications of the Sociometric Badge.
    * This gap sets a goal for this project to re - create Sociometric Badge using widely used technology. The term "widely used technology" meant so that the people that want to use this alternative Sociometric Badge are able to provide support to their own needs to their nearby peers. This meant that this project is also meant to complement things that Humanyze left behind, which is a good documentation and  development platforms.
    * At the beginning this paper is trying to look for possible past to recent implementations of wearable electronics that could be use to help social data gathering. This is supposed to set a standard on what is the ideal solution would be. After the ideal solution is formulated, it will be dumbed down to reach within a limited time frame, current knowledge, as well as budget. This will be then known as the realistic solution.
    * After that this paper will try to group some potential users based on their possible role to this project. Each roles will then determine some requirements. For each requirements that intersect with roles will then get higher priorities. These requirements will then conclude into a fail - able tests. The test will be used to measure what things are missing and incomplete in future sections about Advices.
    * After the requirements are set this paper will go through the process on making the alternative of Sociometric Badge. There will be explained on the design pattern and technical requirements (like multi threading and sample time).
* Before the conclusion, there will be the result of user test for each roles mentioned. The user tests will based on the requirements mentioned in chapter XXXXX. To close, this paper will shows advices and recommendation on future works.rks.