* There are these draft note I made for this week deliverables.
* These are mostly a part of sentence for my research paper.
* In term of technological limitation the problem comes in teo different aspects: the hardware and the software.
* My design principle is that, if I do not know what exactly and who exactly the potential users are, I need to make the prototype as portable as possible.
* The term of "portability" in developer's mind means on howmany platform the codes can run.
* Nowadays, there are two latent development platforms those are flexible, have a strong community supports, and are easy to program.
    * They are Arduino and Raspberry PI.
* At glance Arduino offers easier setup and lower footprints.
* On the other hand, Raspberry PI offers more flexible development platform due to usually everything is done with a full - blown operating system installed.
* There are these questions for this paragraph.
    * How to define technological limitation?
    * What are not technological limitations?
    * What are the technological limitations (mention all)?
    * What is my design principle?
    * What is the main technological limitation?
* My personal design principle as a maker is to make everything as portable as possible in case I am not so sure on my choices of the developer tools.
* In recent day, technology advances every seconds.
* I could miss some latent tools that would be a certain fit for this project.
* After I finished this project, there would be better tools in the market.
* On the recent day, technology advances on every seconds.
* Tools those I have chosen here could be not the best solution anymore in the future.
* On the recent day, technology advances on every seconds.
* A lot of new developing tools comes into market.
* This chapter will be a about a brief explanation on technological limitations as well as my design principle.
* There would be 3 paragraphs, I think, that will be in this sub - chapter.
* The first paragraph will try to define what is technological limitation.
    * On the recent days, technology advances in every second.
    * There are a lot of development kit and frameworks to kick start this project.
    * The situation could be different when later this project finish.
    * When this project finish there might be a better tool for this project.
    * I could just missed a development tools that would actually be a perfect fit for this project.
    * On the recent days, technology advances in every second. Overall, this project is about my attempt on developing a wearable social sensor. For that matter, there are a lot of development kit and programming frameworks to kick start this project with. However, the situation would be different when later this project finishes. When this project finishes, there could be a a better development tools for this project. That, or I could have just missed an available development tools those are fitter for this project.
* The second paragraph would be my design principle on this project.
    * My design principle is that when I am not sure on what will the limitations are, what are the good development platforms, ... I will try to make everything as portable as possible.
    * The term of portability refers to codes and schematics that can be deployed in most development environment.
    * Choosing general development board.
    * Choosing a well - structured and well - written programming language.
    * For the development board, I will search on development board that gives the most connectivity options as well development boards that has a decent amount of input and output pins.
        * Have a liberal connectivity choices.
        * Decent amount of input and output pins.
        * Can be developed in several programming languages.
    * For programming language, I will choose programming language that is stable, enforce programmers to write clean codes regardless the skills, and have a strong community support for the last few years.
        * Enforce programmers to write clean codes regardless their skills.
        * have strong community support for the last few years.
        * Stable.
    * Both development board and the programming language need to have a strong standard library as well as 3rd party library of any modules that I would potentially use in this project.
    * My design principle is to have everything as portable as possible when I am not sure on what will be the hurdles later on. "Portability" refers to codes and electronics schematics that can be deployed in most development environments with little to no change necessary. Generally for this project, this implies to choose a general development board as well as its accompanying programming language.
    * The ideal development board for this project will be a liberal development board. The development board need to have a generous options for connectivity, decent amount of input and output pins, and will be good to have several programming languages those can be used to develop the board.
    * The ideal programming language will be a programming language that is not strictly typed but also not to liberal. Since, I am the only developer in this project, if I expect people to continue this project sometime in the future, the code must be clean, readable, and well structured. A liberal programming language with emphasize on flexible coding like JavaScript will not satisfy this requirement. This project needs to use a programming language that can enforce a writing style to any programmers regardless their skills but also adaptable.
* The last paragraph for this introduction could be on how the database is chosen.
    * This project will use a hosted database to store and maintaining data. However, since I personally is not keen on database and its practices. The chosen database and its options will be determined according to the choice of the development platform and whether the database can be programmed with the programming language of choice.