* This the last chapter for this course.
* Here are some styles when writing citation for your research paper.
    * American Psychological Association (APA).
    * Chicago Manual Style (CMS).
    * Modern Language Association (MLA).
    * Turabian.
* Based on the lecturer experiences, please always check the citation format. In this case she often accidentally mixed one to another.
* Most professors in the university have a preferred citation style.
* Usually in the latest chapter of your paper there would be bibliography.
* Bibliography sorted alphabetically.
* However when sorting bibliography you should ignore these words.
    * A.
    * An.
    * The.
* Basically do not count the first article in the title when sorting your references in the bibliography.
* MLA.
    * MLA usually used in humanitarian area.
    * MLA uses in - line citation (or you could say in - text citation as well).
        * Only the author and then the book's page.
        * There are multiple conditions for this case.
        * Please consult back to the screenshot I will make in later note.
    * I think I need to always put the complete citation in the back of the page, whether if I put the reference as in - text citation or not.
    * Only the first author that will be in reversed (the last name first then mention the first name).
    * If there are more than one author, the second (and so on) author retain to be as it is (first name, then their last name).
    * It is possible to have a reference without the author mentioned.
* APA.
    * APA mainly used for science area.
    * APA never use "and" but use & (ampersand).
* CMS.
    * CMS is more traditional citation format.
    * I heard that, the first foot note for the first citation (?).
    * I think, I can use both foot note and in - text citation for this style.
* There is nothing mentioned in case your reference author is an organization.
* There is DOI (Digital Object Identifier) for website.
* You should mention DOI in your bibliography if it is exists.
    * However, I remember that the usage of DOI only for certain style.
    * I think the usage of DOI is used for CMS style. But, I cannot be so sure.
* There is annotated bibliography as well.
    * This is a citation with your own personal conclusion.
* Use left justification whenever possible for your research paper (it means left aligned).
* Always keep your writing checklist.