* This chapter is quite important for me.
* This chapter is about developing paragraph.
* All sentences in a paragraph need to support one topic sentence.
* 5 different supports to the main idea.
    * Examples.
        * Common sense.
        * Historical.
        * Proof - able.
        * Tangible examples.
    * Facts.
        * Experiment.
        * Objective.
        * Statistic.
        * Surveys.
    * Opinion of experts.
        * Quotes.
    * Persona experience.
        * I think for this project, I will use this the most.
    * Reasons.
        * This is not good, but it is okay to be put somewhere in your paper.
        * Although, do not use this liberally.
        * This is actually related into the examples of common sense.
* Supporting depth.
    * Expert opinions.
    * Provide an example from the project itself.
    * Reasonings.
    * Someone else experiences.
    * Support from other parties.
* The next chapter is about transition.
* Transition is about the glue of all sentences in your paper.
* Some example kinds of transitions are these.
    * Pronoun reference, but be careful when using this. Sometimes what you refer to is not the same from what your reader could refer to.
    * Repeat the same keywords.
    * Specific transitional words, this is what I usually use.
    * Use the synonym of the same keywords. But be careful on this, do not make use of synonym too much, this can make the reader confused.
* You need to choose your transitional words accordingly.
* These are some excerpt from the course.
    * Transitional words must be chosen carefully because different transitional words show different relationships. Do you want to add additional examples? Furthermore, in addition are examples that would show that relationship. Comparing or contrasting, likewise, and similarly show comparison. However and on the other hand show contrast. All are transitional words showing connections. Are you including an illustration or an example? Preface it with, for example or for instance.
    * Is your purpose to show cause - and - effect relationship? As a result, therefore, or consequently would be used to show that relationship. Summarizing your key points, maybe lead the summary with to conclude or to summarize. All four techniques can, at the appropriate places while showing the correct relationships, help the reader stay connected to what you have written. The ideas flow smoothly, and the reader understands how the words and ideas connect.