* This note is about writing research paper from Lynda.
* Lynda is a popular premium platform for quick professional learning.
* Sadly, Lynda is not free.
* Lynda owned by LinkedIn.
* This chapter says that sleep is necessary.
* Actually there were an example about a research paper about sleeping and its scientific background.
* When making a research paper please have a positive attitude.
    * Well actually you need to have positive attitude in everything you do.
* The goal of this project is to create a high quality research paper that I will proud of.
* With this in mind I need to enjoy the research topic by myself.
* Writing needs time and it cannot be crammed into one day/one set of time.
* There are processes those need to be followed to make a clean and concise research paper.
* At lower level, the same sentence from the previous point could apply. There are processes those need to be followed to make a clean and concise paragraph.
* Writing research paper is a tedious task as well as time consuming.
* There are pre - writing methods those will be discussed here that will help to align and set everything to make everything easier when writing your ideal research paper.
* Please check the pre - writing chapter to help to outline the overall chapter.
* In general I need to make outline of everything.
* Making outlines make bigger notion to be a smaller comprehensive chunks.
* Here are some questions those this course will try to answer.
    * How to document all necessary resources?
    * How to make strong thesis statement?
    * How to select research area that is worth your time?
    * How to stick parts together to construct good and concise research paper?
* In this course formatting will also be discussed.
* Everyone needs to commit good amount of time when making a research paper.
* Again, begin everything with positive attitude.
* You need to keep imagining the end - result.
* There are these kinds of researches.
    * Descriptive.
    * Comparison.
    * Causes and effects.
        * Short term.
        * Long term.
* MLA is a citation formatting.
* Research is a research so I need to research and test everything.
* During the period when you are making the research paper, please consider to do research everyday. Make sure to have at least small update everyday. And also keep the pace of the project.
* There are these kinds of activity that you could do everyday.
    * Do and search online review.
    * Examining the research subject physically.
    * Make some comments.
    * Or, at least, talk to relevant people.
* Quoted from the transcript.
    * It is more interesting and more credible and objective, because it is supported by research, not just the writer's opinion. Research papers are strengthened by facts and statistics, quotes from experts, and major and minor detail to add depth.
    * The key here is to add depth to your research paper.
* Descriptive paragraph needs to "access" the sense of the readers.
    * Feel.
    * Hear.
    * See.
    * Smell.
    * Taste.
* Make a general guidelines when you are writing your research paper.
* Choosing topic for your research paper.
    * Close your eyes and listen.
    * Do brainstorm.
    * Please connect the readers to their senses with descriptive sentences.
    * I can use a lot of descriptive sentence for my State Of The Art.
* Grouping can be based from these parameters.
    * Chronological.
    * Pattern.
    * Spatial.
    * Specific features.
* The key is to be as descriptive as possible.
* The next video is about persuasive and argumentative paper.
    * Convince the reader on research points.
* Try to make a concise argument with concrete and strong evidences. Giving more evidences means more depth to your paper.
* Choose topic that is more stronger than other.
* Do testing for every possible thesis.
* Support your thesis with rational evidences.
* When you write your paper, please consider your audience bias. Please check these things.
    * What is your audience capabilities?
    * What is your audience views about your topic?
    * Who is your audience?
    * Consider anything you could mention to make your paper appealing specifically to your main audience.
* Follow the research guidelines from your institutions.
* Use a lot of transitional words. Transitional is something that connects sentence to another sentence.
* Causes and effects paper.
    * Causes must be clear.
    * Reasons must be clear.
    * Situation on this paper usually more complex than other type of research papers.
* Pointers for causes and effects kind of research paper.
    * Causes.
        * Causes.
        * Factors.
        * Reasons.
    * Effects.
        * Consequences. This is more like what is the problem caused by the main topics.
        * Outcomes. This is more like what this paper could fix from the problem.
* The effect part need to be as clear as possible. Sometimes people get triggered for wrong mentioned effect in your paper.
* You can do prediction as well. You as the writer of your research paper makes some predictions on what kind of things will happen next, ....
* Limit the major point. Make everything as concise as possible.
* Effective organization on research material is very important.
* Cause and effect is the hardest paper to write.
    * Make sure to revisit the major back again and again to keep reminding your reader what is the main point is about.
    * Make sure everything is connected.
* Do not confuse the causes and effects.
    * "Where is the problem comes from..." is the cause.
    * "What is the result of the problem...." is the effect.
* Do not oversimplify! Try to not make everything broad, but maintain the scope control to make everything not necessarily to be so specific.
* Your opinion is not valid resource. A little bit better if you have previous experience on the topic before you made the research.