* The key point is to understand the topic.
* For topics, there are these kinds of topics.
    * General topics.
    * Specific topic.
* General topic meant to be understand by commonality.
* Whereas specific topic can only be understand fully by people with specific knowledge.
* The more specific the topic would be, the more useful the effect of your research paper would be.
* Choose topics that interest you.
* The more views you have for your research paper is the better.
* The views mean someone else perspective toward a topic in your research paper.
* These someone else could be there.
    * Someone who has the same opinion with you.
    * The "devil advocate" who introduce the negative opinions.
* You can get different views from here.
    * Debate.
    * Comparing thesis statement with similar project.
* Pick topic that you would like to know.
* Pick topic that you have no bias to any side.
* Think carefully when choosing highly controversial topic.
* Towards jumbled of data, always to try to limit your scope.
* Use a lot of credible resources or your own based opinion.
* *Learn to evaluate the source. Any site that ends with dot com is a commercial site. Its aim, is to sell something. Another source that is viewed with skepticism is Wikipedia. In fact, sometime research paper writers are told to avoid using Wikipedia at all. The main reason is that information can be changed at any time by anyone. Because the researcher has no way of knowing the credentials or biases of those adding to, or deleting from the research, it is not considered a credible source.
* Remember to always evaluate your sources.
* There are always online library resource from your university. Better ask your supervisor.
* Try to conducting interview with experts as well.
* When gathering data, always try to record everything, but do not forget to highlight the, perhaps, useful informations.
* Data gathering methods.
    * Interview.
    * Survey.
    * Check government site.
* Usually good sites to refer to are ended in .org, or even better .gov.
* .org have tendency of bias because it is trying to support their own views.