* Here is summarization for the Airport Controller project.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-1.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-1.png)

* Write a small application to manage information system in an airport.
* They said here it is a "small" application. However, I to make a "small" application I think I have been thinking to hard.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-2.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-2.png)

* The application is intended to manage arrival and departure of all arriving and ongoing out airplanes.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-3.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-3.png)

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-4.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-4.png)

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-5.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-5.png)

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-6.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-6.png)

* Here, the first user is mentioned, the airport.
* The airport needs to state these informations attached for each departing and ongoing airplanes.
    * Airport which the airplane departing from.
    * Airport which the airplane going to.
    * The date of of these airplanes departing or going to this (particular) airport.
    * The flight codes (for example AZ383, ...).
* So these requirements means that this application will be made specifically for an airport. The airport management and not the air traffic controller (ATC).

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-7.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-7.png)

* Every time a flight starts (departing from this airport) the controller (I think this is the controller's job) needs to assign which lane will be used to depart and date and time.
* Thus, there are only 2 variables need to be filled by the ATC.
    * When (date and time).
    * Which lane is used.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-8.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-8.png)

* Same variables are there when an airplane just landed into this airport.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-9.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-9.png)

* Each controller is represented by a code and a name (first name and last name).
* There are 3 fields need to be there when registering ATC.
    * Code.
    * First name.
    * Last name.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-10.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-10.png)

* The user need to state the flight codes.
* However, I am confused who is the "user"? The airport management itself or the ATCs?

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-11.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-11.png)

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-12.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-12.png)

* The system then visualizes the data of the flight.
* However, it is stated here that the data needs to be an actual flight data.
* I think I need to search for an API that has all airplanes schedule.
* I am thinking of Schipol Airport. However, since I think Schipol is too big, I would consider smaller airport like the one in Eindhoven.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-13.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-13.png)

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-14.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-14.png)

* The user (I assume this is the ATC) chooses if they want to register new departure or arrival.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-15.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-15.png)

* The statement above means that every controller is attached to a flight.
* There is this important statement. The system adds the controller to the flight departure and arrival.
* So, I was thinking that I need to have two different kind of users: the airport management and then the ATCs.
* However, "the system" mentioned here, I think, means that the airport management itself is a back - end system that adjust everything automatically.
* The only human - users are those designated as ATC.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-16.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-16.png)

* The system will automatically register all incoming real - time data.
* Then it needs to put all the data into a nice web page.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-17.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-17.png)

* These are some bonus point for this assignment.
* The system needs to be able to visualize error messages and ask the user to input the correct parameters.
* However, how can be this happened (or simulated)?
* The system will automatically enter data from the API. And there is little to no chance that the API will provide a wrong flight data.
* Or should I just create a simulation where time runs 10 times faster (or more) and then create a function to randomly and occasionally put an invalid flight data.
* I will think about this later.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-18.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-18.png)

* It says here that all departure and arrival is already registered. And then the system visualize an error message that asks the the user (ATC?) to edit the correct data.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-19.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-19.png)

* If the controller is not assigned then the system visualize an error and ask the user to correct the data.
* I started to think that this application has nothing to do with ATC.
* This application more like an airport manager that will assign free ATC to a flight.
* And then the ATC automatically assign the lane and the date.
* I will look into the whole document again later.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-20.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-20.png)

* I need to develop the structure and the schema of the application.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-21.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-21.png)

* Develop smaller fragments of the application to use cases.
* I think, for this assignment, it will be good to display my knowledge on unit testing with Angular and Python as well.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-22.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-22.png)

* I need to find out on how to make a proper use case.
* From my first search with Google, it appears that use case or UML is a part of agile development.
* Here are some links about use case.
    * [http://creately.com/blog/diagrams/use-case-diagram-tutorial/](http://creately.com/blog/diagrams/use-case-diagram-tutorial/), I think this is the best explanation and tutorial about use case.
    * [http://www.agilemodeling.com/artifacts/useCaseDiagram.htm](http://www.agilemodeling.com/artifacts/useCaseDiagram.htm).
    * [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/modeling/uml-use-case-diagrams-guidelines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/modeling/uml-use-case-diagrams-guidelines).
    * [https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd409432.aspx](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd409432.aspx).
    * [https://www.tutorialspoint.com/uml/uml_use_case_diagram.htm](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/uml/uml_use_case_diagram.htm).
* From the last link it appears that the notation of "use case" is a sub - category of UML. UML itself is a method of diagramming and has a lot others than the "use case" itself.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-23.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-23.png)

* Use HTML5 for structuring the view contents.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-24.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-24.png)

* Use JavaScript and preferably with AngularJS 1.X and JQuery.
* My intention for this project is to create the least amount of library possible.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-25.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-25.png)

* The assignment tells that the persistent data can be made with database or file.
* However, I think this would be good to display my skill on designing database.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-26.png](./20170816-2007-cet-1-26.png)

* Here are all the criteria for my airport management application.
    * Schema of the application (please refer to "use case" in UML).
    * Contextual separation between presentation, content, and behavior (please use MVC!).
    * Demonstrated my skills with JavaScript.
    * Access from multiple browser (perhaps, make this application mobile friendly as well).
    * Performance!
    * Additionally, I think I would like to show off my Linux experience as well.
        * The interviewer last call told me that they use Vagrant.
        * However, there are 2 other options/complimentary of Vagrant.
            * Docker.
            * Kubernetes.
            * Vagrant.
* Here is the .pdf file for the details and requirements document.

[./20170816-2007-cet-1-27.pdf](./20170816-2007-cet-1-27.pdf)